Tkinter Workshop (#1369)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/Tkinter Workshop/README.md

---
name: "To Quote or Not To Quote?"
description: "Let's build a slideshow of quotes with Tkinter and Python!"
author: "@bezlin6mechminerz"
---

Having a user interface is very useful because it gives both a good interactive experience for the user and makes it much more visually appealing. So today we will see how to make a simple user interface with python in this workshop.

The workshop will look something like this.

> ![ezgif.com-video-to-gif-3.gif](https://cloud-rbupe5aas.vercel.app/0ezgif.com-video-to-gif-2.gif)

Reviewer: Please use descriptive alt text

So we will be making a quotes hub which displays quotes.

View a [live demo](https://repl.it/@bezlin/trialtkinterpy-2#main.py)

View the [final code](https://repl.it/@bezlin/trialtkinterpy-2#main.py)

This workshop will take about 20 minutes.

## Getting started

We will be using [Tkinter](https://docs.python.org/3/library/tk.html), a python library to develop our user interface. This project requires [Repl.it.](https://repl.it) We will be using it for coding. It is awesome because you can code online. Just follow this link and start coding!

To get started, [click here](https://repl.it/languages/Tkinter). Your coding environment will be ready in a few seconds!

> <img width="1440" alt="Screenshot 2020-09-18 at 5 39 06 PM" src="https://cloud-o8q46nkko.vercel.app/screenshot_2020-09-25_at_9.23.06_pm.png">

Reviewer: Use Markdown syntax (no width) with alt text

#### What is Tkinter?

> Tkinter is a library in python used to make cool User Interfaces(UI). What the user sees on the screen to interact with the program is called a user interface. Here we will use it to make our Quotes Hub.

Reviewer: Link Tkinter to its docs. 
```suggestion
Tkinter is a library in Python used to make visual User Interfaces (UI), which users see on their screen and interact with. In this workshop, we’ll use Tkinter to make our Quotes Hub interface.
```

## Code and explanation.

> Lots of beginners make endless changes to their code and expect it to miraculously work right away. The problem with this approach is that it stacks one problem on top of another, and it becomes difficult to figure what went wrong. So Code along this will allow you to learn practical skills while achieving something!

Reviewer: “ So Code along this will allow you to learn practical skills” grammar/doesn’t make sense

Author: changed!

![video](https://cloud-1h9458u6z.vercel.app/54_blog_image_13.gif)

So to make the Quotes Hub we need to import the library Tkinter.

```python
import tkinter as tk
```

We are importing a python library which is Tkinter here. Also for ease, we imported Tkinter as tk so that we don't have to repeat "Tkinter" every time. Instead, we can use tk. We also need another library called random. Let's import it.

```python
import random
```

> This library as the name says is used for making random choices. Here we need to display the quotes randomly, so we need to import it. Now let's make a list of quotes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This library, as the name says, is used for making random choices. For our project, we need to display a random quote, so we need to import it. Next, let's make a list of quotes:
```

```python
window.config(bg="black")
```

I used black, but you can also specify the color as a hex code or RGB value.
`window.config` means we are configuring our window and setting up its bg which is short for the background. Now let's display the Quotes Hub in the window we made. For that, we use the Label function.

```python
tk.Label(window, font=("Helvetica", 60, "bold"),text="QUOTES HUB", bg="black", fg="white").pack()
```

The Label function is used to display text on the window. The Label function takes parameters such as font, text, background color(bg), font color(fg). The first parameter you should give is the name of the window in which you need this text to be displayed.

```python
font=("Helvetica", 60, "bold")
```

Here, in this piece of code, we are setting up the style of the text. The font name, font-size, and the font-weight.
The pack() function packs the text at the center layout. Now let's make a button to display our quote.

```python
tk.Button(window,command=lambda:fun1(random.choice(quotelist)),text="Open",bg="aqua",fg="black",width=20).place(x=315,y=300)
```

> The Tkinter library consists of A Button() function which is used to make a button. The button function takes many parameters such as text, bg, fg, width, height, etc... The first parameter you should give is the window in which you need this button to be displayed. Place() function is used to place the element in the particular coordinate we need it to be syntax - place(x,y). The main thing here is the action of the button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Tkinter library consists of a Button() function which is used to make a button. The button function takes many parameters such as text, bg (background color), fg (foreground/text color), width, height, etc. The first parameter you should give is the window in which you need this button to be displayed. The `place()` function is used to place the element in the particular coordinate we need it to be, in the form `place(x, y)`. The most important part here is the action the button executes.
```

```python
window.mainloop()
```

window.mainloop() tells Python to run the Tkinter event loop mainloop() at the end of a program in a Python file, else the Tkinter application will never run, and nothing will be displayed.

###### Now the code will look like this.

```python
import tkinter as tk
import random

quotelist = [

"Instead of wondering when your \nnext vacation is, maybe you \nshould set up a life you don’t \nneed to escape from.",

"Sometimes\n you win,\n sometimes \nyou learn.",

"Avoiding failure\n is to avoid \nprogress.",

"If the plan \ndoesn’t work, \nchange the plan,\n but never the \ngoal.",

"Creativity \nis \nintelligence \nhaving \nFun."

]
window = tk.Tk()
window.minsize(800, 560)
window.title("Quotes Hub")
window.config(bg="black")
tk.Label(window, font=("Helvetica", 60, "bold"),
 text="QUOTES HUB", bg="black", fg="white").pack()
tk.Button(window,command=lambda:clicked(random.choice(quotelist)),text="Open",bg="aqua",fg="black",width=20).place(x=315,y=300)
window.mainloop()
```

> As output, an error will be shown, that says function clicked() is not declared. So let us make the button work. You need to put these codes above the window declaration then only it will work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of this program will be an error, telling us the function `clicked` has not been declared. Let’s fix that by creating that function, above the `window` declaration.
```

If you don't understand, just go to the live demo and see the button workflow [here](https://repl.it/@bezlin/graphics#main.py).

#### Finally the code will look like this.

```python
import tkinter as tk
import random

quotelist = [

 "Instead of wondering when your \nnext vacation is, maybe you \nshould set up a life you don’t \nneed to escape from.",

 "Sometimes\n you win,\n sometimes \nyou learn.",

 "Avoiding failure\n is to avoid \nprogress.",

 "If the plan \ndoesn’t work, \nchange the plan,\n but never the \ngoal.",

 "Creativity \nis \nintelligence \nhaving \nFun."

 ]

def clicked(quote):
 F1=tk.Frame(window,bg="light salmon",width=800,height=560)
 F1.place(x=0,y=0)
 tk.Label(F1,text=quote,font=("Helvetica", 30, "bold"),bg="light salmon",fg="black").pack()
window = tk.Tk()
window.minsize(800, 560)
window.title("Quotes Hub")
window.config(bg="black")
tk.Label(window, font=("Helvetica", 60, "bold"),
 text="QUOTES HUB", bg="black", fg="white").pack()
tk.Button(window,command=lambda:clicked(random.choice(quotelist)),text="Open",bg="aqua",fg="black",width=20).place(x=315,y=300)
window.mainloop()

```

It’s simple, you just have to go through the functions and workflow.

> ![ezgif com-gif-to-mp4](https://cloud-5m2nwfs8r.vercel.app/ezgif.com-video-to-gif-4.gif)

Reviewer: Alt text

## Hacking time!

Now you know how to use Tkinter to make UI. You should not stop here. You need to learn more You can refer to the documentation [Learn Tkinter](https://docs.python.org/3/library/tk.html). The best way to learn it is to make real-world projects

Lastly, don't get stuck.

I am attaching the Tkinter documentation take a look at [Learn Tkinter](https://docs.python.org/3/library/tk.html).
Also if you are new to python, take a look at [python](https://www.python.org/doc/) documentation.

### Applications made using Tkinter by other hackers.

> [Hariprasad Rajan](https://repl.it/@HariprasadR03/haroadas#main.py)

Reviewer 2: I've mentioned this a couple of times but would it be possible for these to describe whats unique about each demo so the reader knows what to look for? It's only got to be about half a sentence

Author: In these the other hackers have build their veiws on top of it

Reviewer 2: gotcha, could you add that to the workshop?

Author: It shows people who are viewing this workshop on how expandable it can be. All hackers have integrated some features like the back button, exit button, Never end quotes, changed quote hub to a movie summary slideshow, Quotes of famous people by selecting them. All these shows how expandable the workshop is.

Reviewer 2: ik, could you add that to the workshop?

Reviewer 2: This isn't what I meant. I meant that this could be a way for you to provide context to each demo as an example.

Author: ok

[Kk Haridev](https://repl.it/@DandaThor/harri-kkkkk#main.py)

[Aswin Prakash](https://repl.it/@AswinPrakash/VirtualIncomparableLegacysystem#main.py)

[Anupriya Shaji](https://repl.it/@bezlin/trialtkinterpy#main.py)

> After building share your repl link to all communities don't forget about slack and make everyone know the piece of work you have done.

Reviewer: Awkward phrasing/grammar

![made_it](https://cloud-a58thexdk.vercel.app/tenor.gif)

> 
> Yes, You have made it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
